good afternoon
everybody how are we good to see all of
you it's an honor to be here with all of
you a lot of familiar faces in the room
a lot of new faces and president Trump
is back and the Golden Age of America
has most definitely begun the Senate has
already confirmed five of President
Trump's exceptional cabinet nominees
Secretary of State Marco Rubio defense
secretary Pete hegseth CIA director John
Ratcliffe Homeland Security secretary
Christine gnome and treasury secretary
Scott bessent it is imperative that the
Senate continues to confirm the
remainder of the president's
well-qualified nominees as quickly as
possible as you have seen during the
past week president Trump is hard at
work fulfilling the promises that he
made to the American people on the
campaign Trail since taking the oath of
office president Trump has taken more
than 300 executive actions so secured
nearly $1 trillion in US Investments
deported illegal alien rapists gang
members and suspected terrorists from
our homeland and restored common sense
to the federal government I want to take
a moment to go through some of these
extraordinary actions on day one
president Trump declared a national
emergency at our Southern border to end
the four-year-long invasion of illegal
aliens under the previous
administration additionally president
Trump trp signed an executive order to
end Catch and Release and finish
construction of his effective border
wall by using every lever of his Federal
power president Trump has sent a loud
and clear message to the entire world
America will no longer tolerate illegal
immigration and this President expects
that every nation on this planet will
cooperate with the repatriation of their
citizens as proven by this weekend when
President Trump swiftly directed his
team to issue harsh and effective
sanctions and tariffs on the Colombian
government upon hearing they were denied
a US military aircraft full of their own
citizens who were deported by this
Administration within hours the
Colombian government agreed to all of
President Trump's demands proving
America is once again respected on the
world stage so to foreign Nationals who
are thinking about trying to illegally
enter the United States think again
under this President you will be
detained and you will be deported every
day Americans are safer because of the
violent criminals that President Trump's
Administration is removing from our
communities on January 23rd ice New York
arrested a Turkish National for entry
without inspection who is a known or
suspected
terrorist on January 23rd ice San
Francisco arrested a citizen of Mexico
unlawfully present in the United States
who has been convicted of continuous
sexual abuse of a child aged 14 years or
younger ice St Paul has arrested a
citizen of Honduras who was convicted of
fourth-degree criminal sexual conduct
with a minor Ice Buffalo arrested a
citizen of Ecuador who has been
convicted of rape Ice Boston arrested a
citizen of the Dominican Republic who
has a criminal conviction for second
degree murder this criminal was
convicted of murder for beating his
pregnant wife to death in front of her
5-year-old son an ice St Paul also
arrested a citizen of Mexico who was
convicted of possessing pornographic
material of a minor on a work
computer these are the heinous
individuals that this Administration is
removing from American communities every
single day into the brave state and
local law enforcement officer CBP and
Ice agents who are helping in the
facilitation of this deportation
operation president Trump has your back
and he is grateful for your hard
work on the economic front president
Trump took immediate action to lower
costs for families who are suffering
from four long years of the Biden
administration's destructive and
inflationary policies president Trump
ordered the heads of all executive
departments and agencies to help deliver
emergency price relief to the American
people untangle our economy from from
Biden's regulatory constraints and end
The Reckless war on American
Energy president Trump also signed
sweeping executive orders to end the
weaponization of government and restore
common sense to the federal bureaucracy
he directed all federal agencies to
terminate illegal diversity equity and
inclusion programs to help return
America to a merit-based
society president Trump also signed an
executive order declaring it is now the
policy of the federal government that
there are only two Sexes male and female
sanity has been
restored before I take your questions I
would like to point out to all of you
once again have access to the most
transparent and accessible president in
American history there has never been a
president who communicates with the
American people and the American Press
Corps as openly and authentically as the
45th and now 47th president of the
United States this past week president
Trump has held multiple news conferences
gagged on Air Force One multiple times
and sat down for a twart interview on
Fox News which aired last week as
Politico summed it up best Trump is
everywhere again and that's because
president Trump has a great story to
tell about the legendary American
Revival that is well
underway and in keeping with this
revolutionary media approach that
President Trump deployed during the
campaign the Trump White House will
speak to all media outlets and
personalities not just the Legacy Media
who are seated in this room because
according according to recent polling
from Gallup Americans trust in mass
media has fallen to a record low
millions of Americans especially young
people have turned from traditional
television outlets in newspapers to
consume their news from podcasts blogs
social media and other independent
Outlets it's essential to our team that
we share president Trump's message
everywhere and adapt this wide house to
the New Media landscape in
2025 to do this I am excited to announce
the following changes will be made to
this historic James S Brady briefing
room where Mr Brady's Legacy will endure
this White House believes strongly in
the First Amendment so it's why our team
will work diligently to restore the
Press passes of the 440 journalists
whose passes were wrongly revoked by the
previous
administration we're also opening up
this briefing room to New Media voices
who produce news related content and
whose Outlet is not already represented
by one of the seats in this room we
welcome independent journalists
podcasters social media influencers and
content creators to apply for
credentials to cover this white house
and you can apply now on our new website
wh house.gov
New Media starting today this seat in
the front of the room which is usually
occupied by the press secretary staff
will be called the New Media seat my
team will review the applications and
give credentials to New Media applicants
who meet our criteria and pass United
States secret service requirements to
enter the White House
complex so in light of these
announcements our first questions for
today's briefing will go to these new
median members whose Outlets despite
being some of the most viewed news
websites in the country have not been
given seats in this room and before I
turn to questions I do have news
directly from the president of the
United States that was just shared with
me in the Oval Office uh from president
Trump directly an update on the New
Jersey drones after research and study
the drones that were flying over New
Jersey in large numbers were authorized
to be flown by the FAA for research and
various other reasons many of these
drones were also hobbyist recreational
and private individuals that enjoy
flying drones in meantime in the in time
it got worse due to curiosity this was
not the enemy a a statement from the
president of the United States to start
this briefing with some news and with
that I will turn it over to questions
and we will begin with our new media
members Mike Allen from axios Matt Bole
from Breitbart Mike why don't you go
ahead thank you very much Kon does the
president see anything fishy about deep
sea either its origins or its cost and
could China's ability to make these
models quicker cheaper affect our
thinking about expanding generation data
centers trip manufacturing sure the
president was asked about deep seek last
night on Air Force 1 when he gagged for
I think the third or fourth time uh
throughout the weekend with members of
The Traveling press Corps the president
said that he believes that this is a
wakeup call to the American AI industry
uh the last Administration sat on their
hands and allowed China to rapidly
develop this AI program uh and so
president Trump believes in restoring
American AI dominance and that's why he
took very strong executive action this
past week uh to sign executive orders to
roll back some of the honorous
regulations on the AI industry and
president Trump has also proudly
appointed the first uh AI in crypto Zar
at this White House David saaks whom I
spoke with yesterday very knowledgeable
on this subject and his team is here
working every single day to ensure
American AI dominance as for the
National Security implications I spoke
with NSE this morning they are looking
into what those may be and when I have
an update I will share it with you Mike
Caren you say restore us dominance is
there a fear that the US either is
falling or has fallen behind and how
would the president make sure us stays
ahead no the president is confident that
we will restore American dominance in a
so Caroline uh first off thank you to
you and president Trump for actually
giving voices uh uh to New Media Outlets
uh that represent millions and millions
of Americans um the thing I would add
the I've got a two-part question for you
the first is is just can you expand upon
what steps uh the White House is going
to take uh to bring more voices not less
which is what our founder Andrew breart
believed in uh into this room where they
rightly belong yeah absolutely and as I
said in my opening statement Matt um it
is a priority of this White House to
honor the First Amendment and it is a
fact that Americans are consuming their
news media from various different
platforms especially young people and as
the youngest press secretary in history
thanks to president Trump uh I take
great pride in opening up this room um
to New Media voices to share the
president's message with as many
Americans as possible in doing so number
one we will ensure that Outlets like
yours axios and Breitbart which are
widely respected and viewed Outlets have
an actual seat in this room every day we
also again encourage anybody in this
country whether you are a Tik Tok
content creator a blogger a podcaster if
you are producing legitimate news
content no matter the medium you will be
allowed to apply for press credentials
to this white house and as I said
earlier uh our new uh media website is
um White house.gov neww media and so we
encourage people to apply again as long
as you are uh creating news related
content of the day and uh you're an
legitimate independent journalist you're
welcome to cover this white house and
secondly Caroline you said you laid out
several of the actions that President
Trump has taken obviously it's start
contrast to the previous administration
and break that speed from president
Trump uh can we expect that pace to
continue as the the you know the first
100 days moves along here and beyond
that absolutely there is no doubt
president Trump has always been the
hardest working man in politics I think
that's been proven uh over the past week
this president has again signed more
than 300 executive orders he's taken
historic action I Gaggle the board Air
Force One to Mark the first 100 days of
this Administration 4M last Friday or
first 100 hours rather um and this
President did more in the first 100
hours than the previous president did in
the first 100 days so uh president Trump
I think you can all expect uh to for him
to continue to work at this break next
speed so I hope you're all ready to work
very hard I know that we are seek Miller
thanks Caroline a question that we've
asked your predecessors of both parties
in this job when you're up here in this
briefing room speaking to the American
public do you view yourself and your
role as speaking on advocating on behalf
of the president or providing the
unvarnished truth that is you know not
to lie not to off escate to the American
people I commit to telling the truth
from this Podium every single day I
commit to speaking on behalf of the
president of the United States that is
my job and I will say it's very easy to
speak truth from this Podium when you
have a president uh who is implementing
policies that are wildly popular with
the American people and that's EX
exactly what this Administration is
doing it's correcting the lies and the
wrongs of the past four years many of
the lies that have been told to your
faces in this very briefing room I will
not do that but since you brought up
truth seek I would like to point out uh
while I vowed to provide the truth from
this Podium we ask that all of you in
this room hold yourselves to that same
standard we know for a fact there have
been lies that have been pushed by many
Legacy Media outlets in this country
about this President about his family uh
and we will not
accept that we will call you out when we
feel that your uh reporting is wrong or
there is misinformation about this white
house so yes I will hold myself to the
truth and I expect everyone in this room
to do the same and Caroline just have a
substantive question yesterday of White
House Office of Management budget
directed across the board uh free um
with some exceptions for individual
assistance we understand uh to federal
grants it's caused a lot of confusion
around the country among Head Start
providers among providers
services to homeless veterans uh Pro
Medicaid provider State saying they're
having trouble accessing the portal um
could you help us clear up some of the
confusion give some certainty to folks
and also is that uncertainty how does
that uncertainty service the president's
voters well I think there's only
uncertainty in this room amongst the
media there's no uncertainty in this
building so let me provide the certainty
and the clarity that all of you need
this is not a blanket pause on federal
assistance in Grant programs from the
Trump Administration IND individual
assistance that includes I'm not naming
everything that's included but just to
give you a few examples Social Security
benefits Medicare benefits uh food
stamps welfare benefits assistance that
is going directly to individuals will
not be impacted by this pause and I want
to make that very clear to any Americans
who are watching at home who may be a
little bit confused about some of the
media reporting this Administration if
you are receiving individual assistance
from the federal government you will
still continue to receive that however
it is the responsibility of this
President and this Administration to be
good stewards of taxpayer dollars that
is something that President Trump
campaigned on that's why he has launched
Doge the department of government
efficiency who is working alongside om
and that's why om sent out this memo
last night because the president signed
an executive order directing om to do
just this and the reason for this is to
ensure that every penny that is going
out the door is not conflicting with the
executive orders and actions that this
president has taken so what does this
pause mean it means no more funding for
illegal Dei programs it means no more
funding for the green news scam that has
t cost American taxpayers tens of
billions of dollars it means no more
funding for transgenderism and wokeness
across our federal bureaucracy and
agencies no more funding for green New
Deal Social Engineering policies again
people who are uh receiving individual
assistance assistance you will continue
to receive that and president Trump is
looking out for you by issuing this
pause uh because he is being good
Steward of your taxpayer dollars thanks
Caroline sure how long is this pause
going to last and how is the Trump
Administration recommending that
organizations that rely on federal
funding make payroll pay their rent in
the meantime it is a temporary pause in
the Office of Management and budget is
reviewing the federal funding that has
been going out the door again not for
individual assistants but for all of
these other programs um that I mentioned
I also spoke with the incoming director
of om this morning and he told me to
tell all of you that uh the line to his
office is open for other federal
government agencies across the board and
if they feel that programs are necessary
and in line with the president's agenda
then the Office of Management and budget
will review those policies I think this
is a very responsible measure again the
past four years we've seen the Biden
Administration spend money like drunken
Sailors it's a big reason we've had an
inflation crisis in this country and
it's incumbent upon this Administration
to make sure again that every penny is
being accounted for honestly why impose
this pause with so little notice why not
give organizations more time to plan for
the fact that they are about to lose in
some cases really crucial Federal
funding at least for for a period of
time there was notice it was the
executive order that the president
signed there's also a freeze on hiring
as you know a regulatory freeze and
there's also a freeze on foreign aid and
this is again incredibly important to
ensure that this Administration is uh
taking into consideration how hard the
American people are working um and their
tax dollars actually matter to this
Administration you know just during this
pause uh Doge and om have actually found
that there was $37 million that was
about to go out the door to the World
Health Organization which is an
organization as you all know that
President Trump with the swipe of his
pen in that executive order uh is no
longer wants the United States to be a
part of so that wouldn't be in line with
the president's agenda uh Doge and om
also found that there was about to be 50
million taxpayer dollars that went out
the door to fund condoms in Gaza that is
a Preposterous waste of taxpayer money
so that's what this pause is focused on
being good stewards of tax dollars and
so this doesn't affect Meals on Wheels
or Head Start or disaster a again it
does not affect individual assistance
that's going to Americans to follow up
on Nancy do you think there will be a
list of who is affected and how much
money is affected how how will these
contractors and organizations know if
they are actually being having their
funding Frozen and then secondly if
you're willing can you just clarify is
the end goal of this to essentially
challenge Congress or to to prove that
the president can withhold Federal
funding is in other words is this an
attempt to pick a fight to prove that he
can do this no absolutely not as it says
right here in the memo which I have and
I'd encourage all of you to read it it
says the American people elected
president Trump to be the president of
the United States and gave him a mandate
to increase the impact of every Federal
dollar this memo requires federal
agencies to identify and review all
federal financial assistance programs
and supporting activities consistent
with the president's policies and
requirements the American people gave
president Trump an overwhelming mandate
on November 5th and he's just trying to
ensure that the tax money going out the
door in this very bankrupt City actually
aligns with the will and the priorities
of the American people will there be
uh welcome you look great you're doing a
great job we talked about transparency
and some of us in this room know how
just transparent president Trump has
been the last five or six years I think
you'll do the same my question is do you
think this latest incident with the
president of Colombia is indicative of
the global uh powerful uh respect they
have for President Trump moving forward
not only to engage in in economic
diplomacy with these countries but also
World Peace Absolutely I'll Echo the
answer that the president gave on Air
Force One last night when he was asked a
very similar question by one of your
colleagues in the media this signifies
peace through strength is back and this
President will not tolerate illegal
immigration into America's interior and
he expects Every Nation on this planet
again to cooperate with the repatriation
of their citizens who illegally uh
entered into our country and broke Amer
America's laws won't be tolerated and as
you saw the Colombian government quickly
folded and agreed to all of President
Trump's demands flights are underway
once
again um two questions on deportations
if I may um president Trump had set on
the campaign trail that he would Deport
pramas students who are here on visas
and on his first day in office he signed
an executive order that said quote us
must ensure that admitted aliens and
Aliens otherwise already present in the
US do not bear hostile attitude towards
the citizens culture government
institutions or founding principles so
should we take this executive order as
Trump saying he would be open to
deporting those students who are here on
visas but you know hold proom sympathies
the president is open to deporting
individuals who have broken our nation's
immigration's laws so if they are here
illegally uh then certainly he is open
to deporting them and that's what this
Administration is hard at work at doing
we receive uh data from DHS and from Ice
every single day uh from what we hear on
the ground ice agents are feeling
incredibly empowered right now because
they actually have a leader in this
building who is supporting them in doing
their jobs that they were hired to do
which is to detain arrest and Deport
illegal criminals who have invaded our
nation's borders over the past four
years that's what the president is
committed to seeing Peter ask very
quickly just following up on the
question on immigration first president
Trump during the course of the campaign
in 2024 said the following about illegal
IM immigration he said they're going
back home where they belong and we start
with the criminals there are many many
criminals NBC News has learned that ice
arrested 1179 undocumented immigrants on
Sunday but nearly half of them 566 of
the migrants appear to have no prior
criminal record besides entering the
country illegally is the president still
focused exclusiv which is a civil crime
not a not a not a it's not criminal um
federal crime it's a so I'm asking
though he said he was going to focus on
those violent offenders first so those
violent offenders no longer the
predicate for these people to be
deported the president has said
countless times on the campaign Trail
I've been with him at the rallies I know
you've been there covering them too
Peter that he is focused on launching
the largest mass deportation operation
in American history of illegal criminals
and if you are an individual a foreign
National who illegally enters the United
States of America You Are by definition
a criminal and so therefore you are
subject to deportation I apologize for
interrupting so to be clear it's not
violent criminals do not receive
precedence in terms of the deportations
taking place Pres has also said two
things can be true at the same time we
want to deport illegal criminals illegal
immigrants from this country but the
president has said that of course the
illegal drug uh criminal drug dealers
the rapists the murderers the
individuals who have committed heinous
acts on the interior of our country and
who have terrorized law-abiding American
citizens absolutely those should be the
priority of ice but that doesn't mean
that the other illegal criminals who
entered our nation's borders are off the
table understood then let me ask you a
separate question about the confusion
that still exists across the country
right now as it relates to the the
freeze or pause as it's described
president Trump of course ran one of the
key policy items was that he was going
to lower prices lower the cost of
everything from groceries as he often
said but in many of the cases it would
seem that some of these moves could
raise prices for Real Americans on
everything from lowincome heating that
program Child Care programs will nothing
that the president's doing here in terms
of the frees in these programs raise
prices on ordinary Americans what
particular actions are you referring to
that I'm referring to L Heap right now
that's the low-income heating program
for example we can talk about there's no
Clarity so I could refer to a lot of
them we don't know what they are
specifically can you tell us that L Heap
that Li Heap is not one of those
affected so you're asking a hypothetical
based on programs that you can't even
identify just I tell you just just to be
clear since you guys haven't identified
let's do it together just for Americans
at home Medicaid is that affected I gave
you a list of examples Social Security
Medicare uh welfare benefits food stamps
that will not be impacted by this
Federal pause I can get you the full
list after this briefing from The Office
of Management and budget but I do want
to address the cost cutting uh because
that's certainly very important uh and
and cutting the cost of living in this
country um president Trump has taken
historic action over the past week to do
that uh he actually signed a memorandum
to deliver emergency price relief for
American families uh which took a number
of actions I can walk you through those
he also repealed many honorous Biden
admin ministration regulations we know
over the past four years American
households has been essentially taxed
$55,000 in regulations from the previous
administration president Trump with the
swipe of his pen rescinded those which
will ultimately put more money back in
the pockets of the American people um so
deregulation is a big deal and then when
it comes to energy I mean the president
signed an executive order to declare a
national Energy emergency here at home
which is going to make America energy
dominant we know that energy is one of
the number one dri of inflation um and
so that's why the president wants to
increase our energy Supply to bring down
costs for Americans the Trump energy
boom is incoming and Americans can
expect that than I some of the confusion
I think may be here with with this pause
on federal funding you've made it clear
you're not stopping funds that go
directly to individuals but there
certainly are lots of organizations that
receive funding and then may pass along
a benefit Meals on Wheels for one uh
they provide meals for over 2.2 million
seniors what is the president's message
to Americans out there many of whom
supported him and voted for him who are
concerned that this is going to impact
them directly even if as you said the
funding isn't coming directly to their I
have now been asked and answered this
question four times to individuals at
home who receive direct assistance from
the federal government you will not be
impacted by this Federal freeze in fact
om just sent out a memo to Capitol Hill
with Q&A to to clarify some of the
questions and the answers that all of
you are are asking me right now now
again direct assistance will not be
impacted I've been asked and answered
about this om memo there's many other
topics of the day Jackie direct
assistance it's going to another
organization and then trickling down
direct assistance that is in the hands
of the American people will not be
impacted again as I said to Peter we
will continue to provide that list as it
uh comes to fruition but om right now is
focused on analyzing the federal
government's spending which is exactly
what the American people elected
president Trump to do and one question
imigration Carol on immigration of the
ice has made so far since president
Trump came back into office can you just
tell us the numbers how many have a
criminal record versus those who are
just in the country illegally all of
them because they illegally broke our
nation's laws and therefore they are
criminals as far as this Administration
goes I know the last Administration
didn't see it that way so it's a big
culture shift in our nation to view
someone who breaks our immigration laws
as a criminal but that's exactly what
they are Point going the worst wor they
all have a criminal record and welcome
to the if they broke our nation's laws
yes they are criminal yes thank you on
uh stripping details for figures like
John Bolton um Pompeo Brian hook Senator
Tom Cotton said that he's seen the
intelligence and the threat from Iran is
real for anyone who played a role in
solomani strike um he voiced concerned
it wouldn't just impact those
individuals but potentially their family
um innocent bystanders friends anyone
who's near them when they're out in
public is the president open to
reconsidering his decision the president
was asked answered this yesterday um and
he was firm in his decision despite some
of the comments that you had referenced
and he's made it very clear that he does
not believe American taxpayers should
fund security details for individuals
who have served in the government for
the rest of their lives and there's
nothing stopping these individuals that
you mentioned from uh obtaining private
security that's where the president
stands on it I have no updates on that
is there any concern that this decision
might jeopardize the administration's
ability to hire the best advisors for
these kinds of positions in the Future
No in fact I've talked to the
presidential personnel office who has
told me directly that there is such an
influx of resumes for this
Administration that it's incredibly
overwhelming there is no lack of talent
for the Trump Administration rean would
he take any responsibility if anything
happened to these people would he feel
at all that his decision was a factor in
that the president was asked and
answered this yesterday I defer you to
his rean since you're in the back row I
hear you the back row hasn't gotten much
attention in the last four years so I'm
happy to answer your question I can
project uh does the president intend to
permanently cut off funding to NOS that
are bringing illegal foreign Nationals
to the country such as Catholic
Charities um I am actually quite certain
that the president signed an executive
order that did just that and I can point
you to that one more Caroline uh
president Trump issued an executive
order on increased vetting for refugees
in Visa applications uh part of that
order was considering an outright ban
for countries that have deficient
screening processes has the president
considered yet which countries might
fall into this category or countries
like Afghanistan or Syria under
consideration for a full ban yeah so the
president signed an executive order to
streamline the vetting for Visa
applicants and for uh illegal immigrants
in this country who are coming of course
from other nations it also directed the
Secretary of State to review the process
and make sure that other countries
around the world are being completely
transparent with our nation uh and the
individuals that they are sending here
uh and so the secretary of state has
been directed to uh report back to the
president haven't seen that report yet
we've only been here for a few
days for one on the free and federal
funding who advised the president on the
legality of telling government agencies
that they don't have to spend money that
was already appropriated by Congress
well as the OM memo States uh this is
certainly within the confines of the law
so uh White House council's Office
believes that uh this is within the
president's power to do it and therefore
he's doing it okay so they disagree with
lawmakers who say that they don't have
the power to to freeze this fund I would
point you to the language in the memo
that clearly states this is within the
law and on what happened on Friday night
the the administration fired several
inspectors General without giving
Congress the 30-day legally required
notification that they were being fired
I think only two were left at doj DHS
and the doj and then yesterday we saw
several prosecutors I believe 12 fired
from the justice department who worked
on the investigations into the president
as you know they are career prosecutors
therefore they are afforded Civil
Service protections how was the admin
ation deciding which laws to follow and
which ones to ignore so it is the belief
of this White House in the White House
council's office that the president was
within his executive Authority uh to do
that he is the executive of the
executive branch and therefore he has
the power to fire anyone within the
executive branch uh that he wishes to uh
there's also a case that went before The
Supreme Court in 2020 Scala Law LLC
versus the Customs uh the um uh Bureau
protection um I would advise you to look
at that case and that's the legality
that this White House was wrested so
you're confident that if they bring
lawsuits against you those prosecutors
were fired that that they will succeed
we will win in court and did he
personally direct this given they worked
on the classified documents
investigation and the election
interference investigation this was a
memo that went out by the presidential
personnel office and the president is uh
the leader of this white house so yes
yes
car thank you uh congrats on your first
day guy on the podium thank you um
president Trump end this fun for unra
and um also designated the houthi a
foreign terrorist organization both were
decisions that the previous
administration had reversed so here's my
question will there be an investigation
into who gave the previous
administration this terrible advice well
that's a very good point I haven't heard
discussions about such an investigation
but it wouldn't be a bad idea
considering that the houthis certainly
are terrorists uh they have launched
attacks on us naval ships uh across this
world and so uh I think it was a very
wise move by this Administration to
redesignate them um as a terrorist group
because they are and I think it was a
foolish decision by the previous
administration to do so as for an
investigation I'm not sure about that
but it's not a bad
idea thank you for the question I
appreciate it can you give us an update
on the president's plans for his tariff
agenda he spoke a lot about this
yesterday and there's a couple of dates
coming up that he's spoken to number one
February 1st he's alluded to both the
potential for teror for Canada and
Mexico but also China to take effect on
those days whereas what what's he
thinking about that yeah should those
countries expect that on again he was
asked and answered this question this
past weekend when he took a lot of
questions from the press and he said
that the February 1st State uh for
Canada and Mexico still holds what about
the China 10% tariff that he also had
used about last Tuesday uh going into
effect on the same date y the president
has said that he is very much still
considering that for February 1st
separately yesterday he talked also
about sectoral tariffs on for instance
Pharmaceuticals as well as semiconductor
computer chips you talk about steel
aluminum and copper what's the timeline
on those is that a similar sort of
coming days thing or yeah so when the
president talked about that in his
speech yesterday that actually wasn't a
new announcement that was within a
presidential memorandum that he signed
in one of the first days here in the
white house uh on his America First
Trade agenda so there's more details on
those tariffs in there as far as a date
um I don't have a specific date to read
out to you but the president is
committed to implementing uh tariffs
effectively just like he did in his
first term finally he also was asked on
the plane when he gagged about the
potential for Universal tarff he was
asked maybe about 2 and half% there was
a report about that he said he wanted
much bigger than that should we
understand that these tariffs would add
up you know in other words you might
have country specific tariffs like
Canada Mexico China you might have
sectoral tariffs like on Pharmaceuticals
as well as a potential Universal tariff
on top of that do these stack on one or
the other or would one sort of take
precedence over another all I can point
you to is what the president has said on
this front the February 1 date for
Canada and Mexico also the China a
tariff that he has discussed he rejected
the 2 5% tariff he said that was a
little bit too low he wants it to be
higher I'll leave it to him to make any
decisions on that front Philman what the
Mexicans and Canadians have done so far
do you have any comment on whether that
has met the bar what he wants to see on
Fel thank you I I won't get ahead of the
president again on um advocating to uh
foreign Nations on what they should or
shouldn't do uh to get away from these
tariffs the president has made it very
clear again that he expects Every Nation
around this world uh to cooperate with
the repatriation of their citizens and
the president has also put out specific
statements in terms of uh Canada and
Mexico when it comes to what he expects
in terms of border security we have seen
a historic level of cooperation from
Mexico but again as far as I'm still
tracking and that was last night talking
to the president directly February 1 is
still on the books Phil thank you
Caroline uh quick programming note and
then a question on uh taxes well in
terms of programming should we expect to
see you here every day how frequently
will these uh press briefings be it is a
good question April so look the
president uh as you know is incred L
accessible first day here he wanted all
of you in the Oval Office you got a
60-minute press conference with the
leader of the Free World while he was
simultaneously signing executive orders
I may add that's pretty impressive I
don't think the previous office holder
uh would be able to pull such a thing
off um so look uh the president is the
best spokesperson that this white house
has and I can assure you that you will
be hearing from both him and me uh as
much as possible and then a question
about tax cuts um you know the president
has promised to extend the tax cuts from
the previous term
um I'm curious you know does the
president support corresponding spending
cuts as some Republicans have called for
in Congress and will the new treasury
secretary uh be leading those
negotiations with the hill as U minian
did during the first Administration the
president is committed to both tax cuts
and spending cuts uh and he has a great
team negotiating on his behalf but
there's no better negotiator than Donald
Trump and I'm sure he'll be involved in
this reconciliation process as it moves
forward Caroline the um announcement
that you made last night on the Iron
Dome it said the president had directed
that the United States will build this
Iron Dome when you read into the
executive order it seemed uh short of
that it asked for a series of studies
and reports back to him can you tell us
whether the president has directed this
and if he is as concerned on this issue
why the suspensions that we saw listed
by om included so many different nuclear
programs non-proliferation programs
programs to blend down nuclear weapons
and and so forth uh first of all when it
comes to the Iron Dome the executive
order directed The implementation of the
of an Iron Dome it also as you said kind
of directed research and studies um to
see uh if or or how the United States
can go about doing this particularly the
Department of Defense um when it comes
to the other question that you asked
about those specific programs again
would say this is not a a ban this is a
temporary pause in a freeze to ensure
that all of the money going out from
Washington DC is in aligned with the
president's agenda and as the Office of
Management and budget uh has updates on
what will be kickstarted once again I
will provide those to you just clarify
for a sec what you were saying before on
Medicaid it wasn't clear to me whether
you were saying that no Medicaid would
be cut off obviously a lot of this goes
to States before it goes to individuals
and so forth so are you guaranteeing
here that no individual now on Medicaid
would see a cut off because of the pause
I'll check back on that and get back to
you John thanks a lot Caroline as you
know in the first uh week that the
president was in office signed an
executive order as it relates to
Birthright citizenship trying to
eliminate that about 22 uh state
attorney generals have said that this is
uh unconstitutional a federal judge has
just agreed with their their argument
what's the administration's argument for
doing away with Birthright citizenship
the folks that you mentioned have a
right to have that legal opinion uh but
it is in disagreement with the legal
opinion of this Administration this
Administration believes that Birthright
citizenship is unconstitutional and that
is why president Trump signed that
executive order uh illegal immigrants
who come to this country and have a
child are not subject to the laws of
this jurisdiction that's the opinion of
this administ
uh we have already appealed uh the rule
uh the lawsuit that was filed against
this Administration and we are prepared
to fight this all the way to the Supreme
Court if we have to because president
Trump believes that this is a necessary
step to secure our nation's borders and
protect our
homeland policy on foreign policy
Caroline on foreign policy if I may um
the president's commitment to the NATO
defense Alliance is it as strong as the
prior Administration is it the same as
when he served as president president in
his first term in office as long as NATO
pays their fair share and president
Trump has called on NATO allies to
increase their defense spending to 5%
you actually saw the head of NATO uh at
Davos last week on Bloomberg television
saying that President Trump is right and
if Europe wants to keep itself safe they
should increase their defense spending I
would just add that there was no greater
Ally to uh our European allies than
president Trump in his first term the
world for all nations in Europe uh in of
course here at home was much safer
because of President Trump's peace
through strength diplomatic approach
thank you thank you Caroline and it's
great to finally be called on as well in
the briefing room I appreciate that um
of course we know president Trump just
got back from North Carolina and
California meeting with victims of
natural disasters uh there's the 2-year
anniversary of the East Palestine Ohio
toxic train derailment does the
president have any plans to go visit the
victims of that toxic spill or just
visit in general not no plans that I can
read out for you here uh if that changes
I will certainly keep you posted what I
can tell you uh is that President Trump
still talks about his visit to East
Palestine Ohio that was one of the uh
turning points I would say in the
previous election campaign where
Americans were reminded that President
Trump is a man of the people uh And he
as a candidate visited that town that
was just derailed by the train
derailment no pun intended uh and he
offered support and Hope just like I saw
the president do this past week uh it
was a purposeful decision by this
president his first domestic trip to go
to North Carolina into California to
visit with Americans who were impacted
by Hurricane Helen and also by the
deadly fires a red State and a blue
State both of which feel forgotten by
the previous administration in the
federal government that is now that is
now ended under President Trump he will
continue to put Americans first whether
they're in East Palestine in Pacific
Palisades or North
Carolina thank you Caroline on
California could you please clarify what
the milit did with the water last night
as reference in the president's true
social post the water has been turned
back on in California and this comes
just days after president Trump visited
Pacific Palisades and as you all uh saw
applied tremendous pressure on state and
local officials in Pacific Palisades
including Los Angeles mayor Karen bass
uh to turn on the water and to direct
that water uh to places in the South and
in the middle of the State uh that have
been incredibly dry which has led to the
expansion the rapid expansion of these
fires so could you clarify what the
military's role was where the water came
from and how it got there again the Army
Corps of Engineers has been on the
ground in California uh to respond to
the devastation from these wildfires and
I would point out that just days after
president Trump visited uh the
devastation from these fires the water
was turned on that is because of the
pressure campaign he put on State and
local officials there who clearly lack
all common sense and I will never forget
being at that round table with the
president last week and hearing the
frustration in the voices of Pacific
Palisades residents who feel as though
their government has just gone insane
before President Trump showed up on the
scene Karen bass was telling private
property owners that they would have to
wait 18 months to access their private
property so this Administration the
president and his team that's on the
ground in California Rick grenell who
has designated to oversee this great
crisis um had it will continue to put
pressure uh on Karen bass and state and
local officials to allow residents to
access their properties this is a huge
part of it these residents want to uh
take part in their own clearing out of
their properties they should be able to
do that it's the United States of
America what happened to our freedom
clearly it's gone in California but not
anymore under President Trump April
Caroline welcome to the briefing room
thank um several questions one on the
pause um will minority serving
institutions preferably colleges and
universities uh have those monies held
back temporarily at this moment again I
have not seen the entire list because
this memo was just sent out so I will
provide you all with updates as we
receive them okay second also also
secondly um when it comes to immigration
there is this Southern border Focus what
happens to those who've overstated their
visas that is part of the boken
immigration system in 2023 there was a
report by the Biden Administration the
Homeland Security Department it said
overstays of visas were three times more
than usual will there be a focus on the
overstays for visas as well if an
individual is overstaying their visa
they are there an illegal immigrant
residing in this country and they are
subject to deportation and also Lastly
lastly um as we're dealing with anti-
Dei anti-woke efforts we understand this
Administration could is thinking about
uh celebrating Black History Month have
you got any uh word on that anything
that you can offer to us as far as I
know this White House certainly still
intends to celebrate uh and we will
continue to celebrate American history
in the contributions that all Americans
regardless of race religion or Creed
have made to our great country and
America is back Christian day thanks
Caroline um just real quick you
mentioned the inflation executive order
the president signed but egg prices have
skyrocketed since president Trump took
office so what specifically is he doing
to lower those costs for Americans
really glad you brought this up because
there is a lot of reporting out there
that is putting the onus on this white
house for the increased cost of eggs I
would like to point out to each and
every one of you that in 2024 when Joe
Biden was in the Oval Office or upstairs
in the Resident sleeping I'm not so sure
egg prices increased
65% in this country we also have seen uh
the cost of everything not just eggs
bacon groceries gasoline have increased
because of the inflationary policies of
the last Administration as far as the
egg shortage what's also contributing to
that is that the Biden Administration
and the Department of Agriculture
directed The killing of more than 100
million chickens which has led to a lack
of chicken Supply in this country
therefore a lack of egg supply which is
leading to the shortage so I will leave
you with this point this is a an example
of why it's so incredibly important that
the Senate moves swiftly to confirm all
of President Trump's nominees including
his nominee for the United States
Department of Agriculture Brooke Rollins
who is already speaking with Kevin
hasset who's leading the economic team
here at the White House on how we can
address the egg shortage in this country
as for cops I I laid out costs I laid
out the plethora of ways that President
Trump has addressed saving costs for the
American people over the past week he
looks forward to continuing to doing
that in the days
ahead are medic portals down in all 50
states